# NowcastingRepl

**NowcastingRepl.jl**  
This project is the replication of the 2024 paper [_Nowcasting Recession Risk_](https://assets.amazon.science/12/ce/ceca29ba49ecae3b6367041fbf11/nowcasting-recession-risk.pdf) by Domenico Giannone and Francesco Furno.  
The objective is to reproduce the core results originally obtained in MATLAB by the authors, using Julia.

This work was carried out as part of a [Structural Econometrics](https://floswald.github.io/CompEcon/) project by first-year PhD students. The final deliverable is a complete Julia package that reconstructs some results of the original nowcasting pipeline. In particular, this package replicates the results of Chapter 2.3 and 2.4 and Figures 1, 3, 6 and Table 4 (Overall results).

_Authors: Valerio Palagi & Isotta Valpreda_

---

## Reproduction

To reproduce the authors' results, follow the steps below:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ValerioPalagi/NowcastingRepl.jl.git
   cd NowcastingRepl.jl
   julia

2. In the Julia REPL, activate the environment and instantiate dependencies:
    ```bash
    ] activate .
    ] instantiate
    ```

**Required packages:**
- CSV
- DataFrames
- Dates
- Plots
- AdvancedMH
- Distributions
- StatsFuns
- Random
- LinearAlgebra
- Statistics
- PrettyTables

**Folder Organisation:**
  ```bash
NowcastingRepl.jl/
├── Data/                   <- Raw input data
├── Output/                 <- Output generated by replication
│   ├── Figure_1.png/       <- Reproduced figure 1
│   ├── Figure_3.1.png/     <- Reproduced figure 3.1
│   ├── Figure_3.2.png/     <- Reproduced figure 3.2
│   ├── Figure_6.png/       <- Reproduced figure 6
│   └── Table_4_Overall.png/<- Reproduced table 4 (overall results)
├── src/                    <- Source code for the package
│   ├── NowcastingRepl.jl   <- Package module
│   ├── Figure1.jl          <- Code to generate paper figure 1
│   ├── Figure3.1.jl        <- Code to generate paper figure 3.1
│   ├── Figure3.2.jl        <- Code to generate paper figure 3.2
│   ├── Figure6.jl          <- Code to generate paper figure 6
│   ├── Table4_Overall.jl   <- Code to generate paper table 4 (Overall results)
│   └── Functions_try.jl    <- Code that recreates the functions for the estimation of the model
├── test/                   <- Folder where the tests are performed
│   ├── runtests.jl         <- Runs all the test
│   └── Functions_try.jl    <- Code with the functions for the estimation of the model
├── Project.toml            <- Package configuration
├── README.md               <- This file
```

## Abstract of the original paper: 

We propose a simple yet robust framework to nowcast recession risk at a monthly frequency in both the United States and the Euro Area. Our nowcast leverages both macroeconomic and financial conditions, and is available the first business day after the reference month closes. In particular, we argue that financial conditions are not only useful to predict future downturns—as emphasized by the existing literature—but they are also useful to distinguish between expansions and downturns as they unfold. We then connect our recession risk nowcast with growth-at-risk by drawing on the literature on distributional regressions and quantile regressions. Finally, we benchmark our nowcast with the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF) and show that, while both have a similar ability to identify downturns, the former is more accurate in correctly identifying periods of expansion.


## Comment:

The results obtained—particularly those concerning the Brier Score—differ slightly from those reported in the original paper. We believe this discrepancy arises from the fact that, in the original MATLAB code, the ⁠ Bayesian_logit ⁠ function is implemented using a slicing algorithm. We were unable to identify a faithful and functional translation of this algorithm in Julia. Consequently, we implemented the function step by step based on the standard formulation of the model and Bayesian estimation. This may have led to the minor deviations observed in the results, especially in the Brier Score values. Nonetheless, the results remain robust and closely aligned with those reported in the replicated study.


#### Disclaimer:
This repository is intended for academic replication and educational purposes only. Please cite the original paper if you use or build upon this work.
